>> Josh Long: Now,
Spring is a technology that was created,
like I said back in early 2000s,
2001 was when the first author
tag was written, right,
the first date for contribution in Java.
And the core idea behind it is
that it supports this thing called
dependency injection.
What does that mean?
Well, it's commonplace now.
Even Angular has it, even the JavaScript
people understand dependency injection.
But it was a big deal 25 years ago.
And the reason it was such a big deal is
because compared to what was prevalent in
the Java ecosystem at the time, which was
hideous, this is a breath of fresh air.
I think that's one of the reasons why
the technology is called Spring is because
it's just so much cleaner and nicer.
And the dinosaurs that roamed the Earth
at the time were something called J2EE,
which has changed its name three
different times since then.
So it's now, there was Java EE,
and then Jakarta EE.
Jakarta EE and Java EE are far,
far better than J2EE,
which we can all agree was abhorrent.
J2EE at the time was written,
I think, because remember,
some of this stuff started
coming together in the late 90s.
And one of the patterns that you
would have seen as a C programmer in
the late 90s or a C programmer is RAI.
Resource acquisition is initialization.
How many of you have ever heard of
this pattern or anti pattern in Java?
The idea is in C you want to allocate
some memory, do something with it, and
then free it as quickly as possible.
And so you have code where you have these
duplicative allocations of resources,
and then the freeing up of that resource
so that it doesn't leak, which is again,
I know smart pointers and
the like from Boost and now in the C++
standard have come a long way since then.
But at the time,
this is not the case, okay?
And so you see a lot of code from that
time that was written in terms of RAII in
Java and it doesn't make any sense
because Java has object orient.
It has a garbage collection, rather.
So let's look at this code here, right?
I've got some sample code.
You can just follow along.
I'm not going to type anything here.
It's in the beans folder there.
We're going to go pretty quickly here,
so let's make sure we're
all here on the same page.
Here's some code you should not write.
This is a customer service implementation
and I've got an embedded database and
I'm creating the database.
But imagine me creating a database
connection to a data source right in place
Imagine me initializing it and
putting the username and
the password in the class where
I'm using the data source.
That's not a good idea.
And then imagine me writing code using
the lowest level abstraction for
talking to a SQL database in
Java using JDBC directly.
This code is an embarrassment of awful,
right?
It's just so
many things that could be better.
So first of all,
what if I have more than one object
that needs a pointer to the data source?
Why would I create a new
data source per component?
I wouldn't want to do that.
It's a waste of memory.
Especially when data sources typically
have thread pools, which in turn have,
well, threads, which means that you
can't really scale that up efficiently.
And then same thing over here.
What is the business logic for this?
I'm getting the ID and
the name from a table called Customer and
I am mapping each result into
an object called Customer.
That's it.
Everything else is just boilerplate.
Allocating a statement,
allocating a connection, clearing it,
handling exception.
I'm not even handling exceptions,
but I should be.
So this is bad code, but this is RAII,
Resource Acquisition is Initialization.
I'm doing everything in place and I'm not
letting the natural sort of elegance of
object oriented programming shine through.
So then you get to,
let me see, Readme here.
Then you get to dependency injection,
which is just, you know,
just means writing code with constructors.
It's not a big idea, right?
So here I take that awful code that
we had before and it's still verbose.
I'm still doing the absolute least
pleasant thing I can do without
the benefit of any technology at all,
basically, except for the core jdbc, spi,
JDBC being the way that Java
talks to databases, right?
Like I don't know what's the equivalent
in most of the languages, right?
It's just, yeah,
imagine using straight ADL,
or straight,
what is the Python equivalent?
It'll come to me.
Anyway, the point is I'm
injecting a data source here.
So at least the data source is now
being defined somewhere else and
I can reuse it so
I can pass around the pointer to the data
source to multiple places and you can see
that that code is testable here in this.
So, so I've got the data source extracted
out, I'm initializing the schema,
I've got this little handy utility thing
here that will load schema SQL and
data SQL and
it'll run the SQL data source initializer.
And then finally,
once that's confirmed, I actually have
a Valid object that I can then use, right?
If I go back to my test over here,
the object, the database, is correct.
And now I can create my customer service
passing in a pointer to the data source.
And then I can confirm that there are two
records in the database by reading them
from the database like that.
So that works fine.
It's a little bit better, but
it's still very, very verbose, right?
I'm still writing a lot of JDBC code,
so what else can we do?
Well, what's another thing that
Spring introduced at the time, right?
So we had this,
we used to talk about the Spring triangle.
So you've got dependency injection,
which works against,
undoes the nastiness of things like raii,
right?
But then you also have
portable service abstractions.
Portable service abstractions are the
second leg of the three legs of the Spring
triangle, right?
There's three sides.
And portable service abstractions
are basically utility abstractions that
make working with these tedious lower
level APIs more pleasant, okay?
And at the time we had something called
the JDBC template, which that was like
a gateway for a lot of people who
wanted to get into using Spring, but.
But they could only bring, they could
only treat it like a utility library.
Maybe they didn't have the ability to
use it as a full on framework yet, but
they had some utilities they
wanted to use, so portable.
I could take that code now
that we just wrote and
refactor it now to use the JDBC client.
So here's the exact same code, right?
But if I look at the where's
my customer service here?
This is using the JDBC client, right?
This is a newer.
There's a JDBC template
which is from 20 years ago.
There's the JDBC client, which is newer,
but the same idea, right?
I've refactored that code to express
the essence of what I care about.
So I'm injecting not the jdbc,
I'm not injecting the database itself,
I'm injecting a JDBC client
which in turn has the database.
I do that here.
So I create that and then I pass
that into the customer service and
look at the code, right?
Select all from id,
select id name from customer.
And then the essence is for
each row, map it to this object.
I'm not writing boilerplate code anymore.
This is just an object that will
return the records from the database.
Pretty straightforward, okay?
I'm not dealing with allocating
statements or connections or
any of that stuff anymore.
It's just much cleaner.
So already I'm stripping Away noise.
And I'm leaving behind
essential business logic.
But still, there are some concerns
that are common to all my objects.
And normally in object
oriented programming,
you enforce these common
things by having common roots.
But there are things that are sometimes
important to all objects,
even if they're not in a hierarchical
sense the parent of that thing, right?
You wouldn't say they don't
have that relationship.
But these concerns need to be cared for.
So, for example, transaction demarcation
or auditing, logging, right,
things like that.
So how would I do that?
What if I wanted to do logging?
What if I wanted to have timings
around each method invocation?
Whenever somebody calls a service,
I want to emit telemetry to another thing.
Well, that's the thing I
wanna do across all my code.
Do I want to have a base
class that does this?
Do I want to make everybody call
that superclass method, right?
I don't want to do that.
That seems very ugly.
What if I had some way to transparently
using object orientation and
information hiding and polymorphism.
What if I had some way to add behavior to
a type in such a way that the consumer of
that type doesn't know that they've been.
They've in effect been duped,
they've had something swap out.
So let's look at that example again.
I've got my customer service, but
I'm using this thing I wrote called
the loggable proxymaker proxy.
And I'm passing this customer service.
This is still customer service.
The contract is still customer service.
So anybody that was expecting a customer
service will still get a customer service.
But they're not actually
getting a customer service.
They're getting a proxy.
They're getting a subclass of customer
service that adds extra behavior.
And that subclass was
written programmatically.
That is to say we did it at runtime.
We created the subclass at runtime,
extending the class that we
provided to add this extra
behavior because of polymorphism.
Anybody that was expecting customer
service before will still be able to
say they got a customer service.
It's just a subclass.
So let's look at this code here.
This is a little low level.
This is not stuff most people should have
to write, but it's not hard to do either.
This is a capability.
Well, this is a spring object
that is using two facilities,
one of which was introduced
in Java 1.4 in 2001.
So it's not a hard thing to understand or
whatever.
Basically we are programmatically,
we're saying to Java,
create an implementation of this
interface or of this type the target.
And then, whenever somebody calls
a method, here's an event listener.
When the method gets called,
call this event listener and
give me a pointer to the on like as
the method is being invoked on the target.
When somebody calls,
get customers or whatever.
Give me a chance to look at
the invocation of the method and
then I can start some clock,
I can capture the current time and
the end time in the finally block
block and I get the result there and
I can then log it out or
I can send it to Prometheus or something.
Then that's it.
So I'm using this thing.
It's automatically adding this capability
to every method in that object that I
pass in.
But it's giving me back something
that is a customer service.
But if you look at the actual type at
runtime, it's not customer service itself,
it's actually customer
service dollar sign and
then some inscrutable
string of characters.
It's a dynamically generated
subclass at runtime.
We are in effect compiling new
code when the program starts up.
This is why it's very weird for
people who have never seen Java before.
They don't realize that it's just as
dynamic as JavaScript, or Python, or
whatever.
You can do eval in effect in Java
in a roundabout circumlocutus way.
But you can.
That's a good thing,
as we'll see later when we talk
about Graalvm a bad thing, okay?
So let's see,
if I actually run this code, okay?
Let's run this code up to this point and
we'll put our cursor and
look at the actual generated class here.
Customer service.
You see that?
That's not just customer service,
that's customer service.
No, this one over here.
Customer service $spring
CGLIB blah blah blah blah.
The class name was clearly synthetic.
It's not a real class, right?
So run this.
Okay, so that AOP is the third leg.
So you've got Aspect Oriented programming.
This idea of introducing aspects of
behavior that influence the form of a lot
of different objects.
That's called Aspect Oriented programming.
There's actually a much higher
level abstraction in Spring for
dealing with this kind of stuff.
You don't ever have to
do something like this.
But the point is it's there,
it's pervasive, and
it's one of the ways that Spring is
able to do magic tricks for you.
You create just a random class and
you add an annotation and
suddenly you've got an HTTP endpoint.
How it's because Spring is able to
add behavior to these objects, and
it's able to do a bait and switch.
You say, hey,
I'm advertising a customer service.
Somebody else says, hey,
I want to inject a customer service.
In between, the framework sits there and
it can do a swap.
It takes your regular customer service and
adds this logging ability and
then gives that to the thing
that depends upon it.
That swap is the that indirection is so
key to so much of what Spring does.
Okay.